Add high-level overview of the IDPF construction (#442)
cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-vdaf: draft-irtf-cfrg-vdaf.md

| FieldLeaf  | `Field255` ({{fields}}) |
{: #idpf-bbcggi21-param title="Constants and type definitions for the IDPF of BBCGGI21."}

### Overview

> On a high level, the IDPF maps a key generator's input `(alpha, beta_1, ..., beta_BITS)` onto

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At a high level, the IDPF maps a key generator's input `(alpha, beta_1, ..., beta_BITS)` onto
```

a binary tree with `BITS+1` levels, where each edge going from a parent node to a left child is
labeled `0`, and each right edge is labeled `1`. Then each leaf node corresponds to a value

> `x` in `0, ..., 2^BITS`, and the labels on the path from the root to `x` contain the binary

Reviewer: We recently moved away from encoding the index as an `int` to encoding it as a `list[bool]` (basically the path itself).

Author: Called it a "bit string" instead.

> decomposition of `x`, starting with the most significant bit. Finally, all inner nodes have

Reviewer 2: Following #433, we may want to talk about these as bit strings, rather than integers, for consistency.

Author: Fixed.

> the label `0`, while the nodes on the path from the root to `alpha` have labels

Reviewer 2: We are overloading the concept of "labels" here. The first half of the paragraph says that the labels are from successive bits of the IDPF index, while the second half says that the labels are zero or beta. Should we refer to the latter as "values", and not "labels"? Moreover, I don't think the distinction "inner nodes" needs to be made, since both inner nodes and leaf nodes will be labeled similarly.

Author: Done.

`beta_1, ..., beta_BITS`.

The IDPF construction now boils down to secret-sharing the node labels of that tree in an efficient way. Note
that explicitly representing the tree requires `O(2^BITS)` space, so the generator cannot just
compute additive shares of it and send them to the two evaluators. Instead, the evaluators will

> re-generate shares of the tree using a pseudorandom generator (PRG). The basic observation is that if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
re-generate shares of the tree using an XOF. The basic observation is that if
```

Author: Fixed.

> both evaluators have the same seed `s` of length `KEY_SIZE`, then Expanding `s` to length `2*KEY_SIZE`

Reviewer 2: nit: copyedit
```suggestion
both evaluators have the same seed `s` of length `KEY_SIZE`, then expanding `s` to length `2*KEY_SIZE`
```

> using a PRG, then the expansion can be split again into two seeds `s_l`, `s_r`, that can again serve

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence needs to be rephrased

Author: Done.

as PRG seeds. If we view seeds as XOR-shares of integers, then a seed that is the same at both
evaluators will be expanded to a secret-shared tree of zeros.

The open task now is to ensure that evaluators have *different* seeds at nodes that lie on the path
to `alpha`, while having the same seeds on all other nodes. This is done using so-called
*correction words* that are conditionally added to the PRG output by both evaluators.
The condition here is a secret-shared bit, called *control bit*, which indicates whether the
current node is on the path to `alpha` or not. On the path, the control bits add up to `1`, meaning
only one evaluator will add the correction word to its PRG output. Off the path, either none or
both evaluators add the correction word, and so the seeds at the next level.
What remains is to turn the -- now pseudorandom -- values on the path to `alpha` into the desired

> `beta` values. This is done by sending *value correction words* to the evaluators, which are

Reviewer 2: We may need to mention that the pseudorandom seed values are also expanded by the PRG into pseudorandom output values, which are then corrected.

Author: Added a sentence above on `convert`.

| FieldLeaf  | `Field255` ({{fields}}) |
{: #idpf-bbcggi21-param title="Constants and type definitions for the IDPF of BBCGGI21."}

### Overview

At a high level, the IDPF maps a key generator's input `(alpha, beta_1, ..., beta_BITS)` onto
a binary tree with `BITS+1` levels, where each edge going from a parent node to a left child is
labeled `0`, and each right edge is labeled `1`. Then each leaf node corresponds to a bit string
of length `BITS`, where the labels on the path from the root to `x` contain the individual bits.
Finally, all nodes on the tree have have an assigned value, with the nodes on the path from the
root to `alpha` having values `beta_1, ..., beta_BITS`, and all other nodes having value `0`.

> The IDPF construction now boils down to secret-sharing the node labels of that tree in an efficient way. Note

Reviewer 2: To align with the above terminology:
```suggestion
The IDPF construction now boils down to secret-sharing the values at each node of that tree in an efficient way. Note
```

that explicitly representing the tree requires `O(2^BITS)` space, so the generator cannot just
compute additive shares of it and send them to the two evaluators. Instead, the evaluators will

> re-generate shares of the tree using an extendable output function (XOF). The basic observation is that if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
re-generate shares of the tree using a XOF ({{xof}}). The basic observation is that if
```

both evaluators have the same seed `s` of length `KEY_SIZE`, then expanding `s` using a XOF will also
result in the same expansion. If we set the length of the XOF expansion to `2*KEY_SIZE`, it can then be
split again into two seeds `s_l`, `s_r`, that can again serve as XOF seeds. Now if we view seeds as XOR-shares
of integers, and if evaluators have the same seed at the root of the tree, then their expanded trees will form

> a secret-shared tree of zeros. The actual construction will use a `convert` function that maps seeds

Reviewer: Add a forward reference to the section where `convert()` is defined.

Author: Done.

> into the appropriate output domain.

Reviewer: `convert()` also generates the seed for the next level, no?

Author: Mentioned that.

> The open task now is to ensure that evaluators have *different* seeds at nodes that lie on the path

Reviewer: This won't render the way you want it to.
```suggestion
The open task now is to ensure that evaluators have different seeds at nodes that lie on the path
```

to `alpha`, while having the same seeds on all other nodes. This is done using so-called

> *correction words* that are conditionally added to the XOF output by both evaluators.

Reviewer: We don't get to use bold. To denote a new term we're introducing, we've been using quotes.
```suggestion
"correction words" that are conditionally added to the XOF output by both evaluators.
```

> The condition here is a secret-shared bit, called *control bit*, which indicates whether the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The condition here is a secret-shared bit, called a "control bit", which indicates whether the
```
